DBFFS
Demand Based Feeding of Fishes , A project that aims to automate the feeding process for fishes in a tank based on their demand. The system utilizes computer vision techniques with an overhead camera to detect and measure the average speed of fishes swimming in the tank and open the feeder when a threshold is crossed. There is a LOT that needs to be added before making it completely sensible but this is still a start.

Fish Feeding System
This project implements a demand-based feeding system for fishes using an overhead camera. The system measures the average speed of all fishes in a tank and triggers a feeder when an arbitrary speed threshold is crossed.

Features
Real-time fish speed detection using computer vision techniques
Calculation of average speed of fishes in the tank
Servo motor control for opening the feeder
Demand-based feeding triggered by the average speed crossing a threshold
Serial communication with an Arduino board
Requirements
Python 3.x
OpenCV
NumPy
PySerial
Features:
Real-time fish speed detection using computer vision techniques

Calculation of average speed of fishes in the tank

Servo motor control for opening the feeder

Demand-based feeding triggered by the average speed crossing a threshold

Serial communication with an Arduino board

Installation:
Clone the repository: git clone https://github.com/abhishek-sharma05/fish-feeding-system.git

Install the required packages: pip install opencv-python numpy pyserial

Usage:
Connect the camera and the Arduino board to the system.

Open the main.py file and modify the following variables according to your setup:

ser: Serial port and baudrate for Arduino

threshold_speed: Speed threshold for triggering the feeder

camera_index: Index of the camera (0 for default, 1 for second camera, etc.)

roi: Region of interest coordinates (x, y, width, height)

Run the script: python main.py
Contributing:
Contributions are welcome! Please follow these steps:

Fork the repository.
Create a new branch: feature/your-feature
Make your changes and commit them: git commit -m "Add your feature"
Push the changes to your branch: git push origin feature/your-feature
Create a pull request.
License:
This project is licensed under the MIT License

see the LICENSE file for details.
